Then it hits me , the most regular of verbs : Pull . Pull … the … fire alarm . Yes , it ’ s irresponsible , I ’ m a parent , and blah-blah-blah . But it ’ s night school and hardly anybody ’ s here ! And these things routinely go off and there ’ s never any harm done .
Have you heard the expression , “ going to hell in a handbasket ” ? Well , the man who makes those handbaskets is sad that they ’ re only used for this purpose . He thought they ’ d be requisitioned for carrying apples , thermoses of lemonade and sandwiches . It ’ s summer , and there is so much to love . But somewhere , an orphanage is reduced to rubble .
In the crazy yoga class it is fifteen hundred degrees and everyone acts like nothing ’ s going on . Everyone moves through yoga postures glistening like they ’ ve been dipped in Vaseline because it ’ s fifteen hundred degrees in the room , but no one lets on that it ’ s out of the ordinary . When the class is small , the teacher gives instruction and walks around helping students make adjustments . When she came to help me as I struggled with a posture she asked me if I had any injuries . “ Well , ” I said .
We rode a barrel over Niagara Falls as practice for riding night over the skyline . We forgot we had names and mothers . We did it without a drop of drink . We wrote “ FOR A GOOD TIME CALL KALI ” in dove ’ s blood ink on bathroom stall walls , to test what she ’ d do . We became armchair neurosurgeons and rewired our brains so they led one to the other .
They ’ d bullshit people at bars . Tell outlandish stories that uncomfortably tickled people in places where they kept their notion of decency . Hinted at incest and religious fervor in dim rooms that already smelled faint of it . Said she was in the city for the weekend , that they snuck her out from underneath “ ma. ” Bartenders comped them shots ; tipped them like tourists would street performers outside . She ’ d eyeball the loneliest looking man , slur then tug her “ cousin ” to her lips to make out .
In the photograph engraved on his tombstone he looked so young , stumping us , because , while he was younger than us , he ’ d always struck us as an old soul . Jen touched where the rough engraving of his hair gave way to the smooth black granite . What wasn ’ t in the photograph was us in the booth around him , happy hour , numbing ourselves with cosmo-ritas , having lost one . We recalled how badly we ’ d wanted laughter and how , when the alcohol landed , it came . We ’ d been cropped out , red eyes , scrubs and all .
The first warm breath mitigates her melancholy . I sustained my young love through another winter . She ’ s at the park . Canopy of still barren branches . Learning how her legs have atrophied , struggling to expand lungs against sharp jabs .
You are asking for my certainty . I reveal it . It thumps your chest , your mouth . Knowing is a procedure to reach theorem , and we find knowing is in the context of senses . Taste creating ideas .
I ’ m a skeleton sitting in a blackened theater . A large movie Moveme complex with the walls removed and one giant screen . I should be frightened by my skeleton , stripped of flesh and spirit . I ’ m not . I ’ m waiting for the movie to begin , for other patrons to fill the empty seats .
In Kyoto you attend a lavish , decadent dinner for which you ’ ve paid a small fortune to eat off the body of a beautiful woman . Like the others at your table , you clap when she ’ s wheeled in and make hazy murmurs of appreciation until the old scarecrow on your left abruptly lifts a piece of tuna from her throat . Next , a nipple is revealed . A red toenail . Now it ’ s your turn .
My lucky rabbit ’ s foot has worked every time , or almost every time . It was in my back pocket when I won the raffle for a wine basket . It was around my neck when I got the bartender job at the Sidewinder Club . And it was on my belt the day I met him . We spent six wonderful years together .
A flare arcs across the sky to spotlight barbed wire and muddy trenches . A pause , a moment of clenched breath , to consider this expanding light . Another wave of Italian suits surge over the top of the trenches . You expect soldiers but get plutocrats , charging into the starburst swinging their slinky electronic devices . Dress shoes sink into black muck , ties scorched by shrapnel .
Nate straps on his leg to chase the killer through the streets of Philadelphia . Rosalyn is the fiery-haired publisher trying to save the paper . No one is safe . With blood spurting from his neck , a reporter dies on live TV at the MLB all-star game . A cop dies in her squad car with sirens blaring .
I managed a July home visit only because my mother was ill. My brother Frank arrived for me in the truck . In the back were 200 chickens in crates . They squatted in the hot wind and I was full of the scent of the farm by the time we arrived . I tried to keep my habit clean . One afternoon I accompanied Frank to the lake .
Painting my nails , I giggled as radiance lit up the room . I passed chirpy gossip of boyfriends to my factory friends while brushing on numbered clock faces so time would appear visible in the darkest places for customers . Liquid radium , I didn ’ t know it was poison soaking through my skin and bones . Years later , what once blazed gold , spilled inside my blood , became sickness , weakness . Who will pay for such novelty—malady , this breaking of bones , disintegration of body , of time .
At 90 degrees Celsius , you set a tea bag in the ceramic mug she gave you months ago : the only part of that year that remains . The only part you can truly hold . At 95 degrees , bubbles roll like marbles along the bottom of the pot . You look down , see a message on the tea bag ’ s paper label . It reads : Always reach for something higher , lighter , better than yourself .
Everything was unwieldy when I was fifteen . That summer I squeezed into a size 14 swimsuit , amazed that all this was me . My suit was yellow . I spent all day in it , canoeing badly across lakes in Canada . The boy I loved paddled always just ahead .
Joey found the first cat glassy-eyed and unable to keep its head up under Mrs. White ’ s hydrangeas . He blamed a virus , but when the stubby-legged tabby staggered and collapsed on the sidewalk he knew one of the neighbors was poisoning the strays . That summer quilts covered Joey ’ s windows so he could sleep during the day . At night , he chain-smoked in the shadows of evergreens , lurked behind garages . Twice Ms. Wilson woke up to find her sliding door open .
I bought my best friend a singing telegram , a Pee-wee Herman impersonator . It turned out he was a transvestite meth head living in one room hung wall to wall with dresses . I know this because at the last minute he called , asking for a ride to the gig . He ’ d gotten into a fistfight with his lover who took the car . It ’ s open , he said softly , still curled on the couch , the eye of a storm of tulle .
I used to think it would be , well , not all hearts and flowers , but , romantic , somehow , more romantic than my parents , that ’ s for sure . I didn ’ t mean to be the naïve girl who never did dope or even went to raves , for all the right reasons , but looking back , that was me . I was eighteen , and then I was twice that . And so here we are , sex on Tuesdays and Fridays , yoga on Saturdays , football on Sundays . He ’ s happy so I ’ m happy .
The grass where my head rests is warm and dry . From this vantage point , I can see the Ferris wheel across the parking lot , rotated 90 degrees from vertical . Even with the wind and nearby traffic rumble , I can hear squeals of delight as children reach the top of the arc and start their drop . I can also smell the pungent aroma of frying sausages and funnel cakes . It ’ s an almost perfect summer day—bright , cloudless , warm but not oppressively hot .
The dentist ’ s drill , red hot against my lips , raised blisters like ruddy grapes . He took his time , chewed his cud , burped , wiped old cream cheese from his beard . But he worked with purpose and dexterity , crowning each alpine molar with a glacier of gold . Done , he handed me a Dixie cup of mercury , asked me to rinse now , to brush , religiously , as if I meant it , to go forth , but to return to his reclining vinyl chair in 180 days . The receptionist , wet hairy hands and scrubbed pink feet , kissed my neck and pleaded , “ Mouthwash and floss !
There he sits in boxers , black birds perched alongside . How to explain a husband , babbling and unbalanced , high on the garden wall ? The Missus is hatching a plan to send Humpty packing . Bills litter the table ; he can ’ t keep a job–comes home drunk and boiling . The first time Humpty scaled the wall , she ran outside in her slip to talk him down .
My best friend Vicki and I spent hours dressing up in her mother ’ s discarded evening wear , carefully choosing cocktail dresses , costume jewelry , and high heels from the trunk in the garage . We expertly adjusted outfits to our 7-year-old bodies , tucking chiffon under cinched belts so we wouldn ’ t trip . The object of our efforts lived near the end of the cul-de-sac . We strutted down the sidewalk , hoping he would emerge and be dazzled , make his choice . Eight-year-old boys are blind to haute couture .
A zaftig teen peddled her younger sister ’ s bike awkwardly up Highland Avenue at sunset . The young woman ’ s body fought the seams of her aqua leotard . Dime-size sequins splashed disco on everything she passed . The effect was that of the Sparkletts water truck in flip-flops . Her body was not hers .
Our last argument went on for 80 miles . We were on I-55 headed for St. Louis . I kept not knowing what it was about . “ Babies , ” you said . “ Babies , ” I said .
11:00 I close my eyes . 10:55 Lights are coming right at us . 10:50 I put my hand on Kareem´s face , he bites my palm fiercely , and loses his grip of the wheel . 10:30 His accusations and my explanations become an entangled sound mass , screaming and crying . 10:00 Kareem´s silence engulfs us .
The girl always kept her face hidden by the deep , scarlet hood . She ’ d be gone days , loping down the woods ’ long-trod trails . Stories followed her like minnows after live bait—relentless , endless , ravenous . She ’ d jumped up and down on her grandmother ’ s skeleton , howling . She could grow poison berries and bewitch you into eating them .
Inside his disastrous apartment , exuberant files : Mousetraps ; Buttons ; Inkwells ; Santa Claus Outfits ; Fountains for Your Faucet . Old letters— “ frankness in a man is an unusual thing but frankness in a woman as beautiful as you… ” A bill for 26 years of unpaid dues from a New York gentleman ’ s club . Fifteen years after the Parkinson ’ s diagnosis—by then , crawling up and down stairs—he and my mother went tubing on the Tye River . He would remember it the rest of his life , he said 10 days before he died . His body anchored and buoyant , the sunlit water returning it to him .
A too-shiny quarter . Man with a plaid cotton eyepatch like a cheap jewel pulled tight against his neck . Wheels up to the taco truck order window . “ Is that a real twenty ? ” [ “ turning tricks ” ] [ “ out of pocket ” ] “ Is that actual beef ? ” Worker in the window winks . Scratches at the eyelid sty .
I called him Sweetie Pie . His real name was Frank . He was an adversary to Fate . He was a three-legged rabbit , frightened by nothing except heights . I put him on my shoulder once as a joke , and everyone at the barbecue seemed to love it .
So of course now , every morning , Murphy and I have our little routine down . I feed him his food ; I make my eggs . I give him his water ; I make my coffee . He chews his toy ; I read my newspaper . After we are through with all that , we walk to the living room window and sit .
The day after I buried him , I pledged to give all I owned to the nothingness which took away my future . I step out of my shoes and walk with naked soles on the pavement . Anything can attack me : bits of broken glass , rusty nails . I ’ ll take whatever comes with my very body . My baby is dead and I am alone as I should be for letting him die .
“ It ’ s never as good as you think it ’ s going to be , ” Lara said . It was after midnight in Santa Fe . Drunk on red wine , she and I stood near a firepit at the hotel , a few steps from a woman named Nadia . My wife and I had been broken up during that time , years ago . I wanted to kiss Nadia .
He brought her over for our approval , the woman for whom he ’ d left his wife , children . We met her suspended between judgment and acceptance , offered her tea . She asked for vodka . Miriam hesitated ; I waited for her to say that we had none . Instead she brought out a bottle from the freezer and we proceeded to drink Russian style .
Three twenties , soft as toilet paper , folded in his pocket . One left over from the poker game , two filched from Gina ’ s purse in an early morning fishing expedition . He had gotten lucky . Often there was only the baby ’ s soother , a nub of eyeliner and a mittful of change . Dom willed his phone to ring .
They enter the dog run like worms squiggling into humid clay . Large man with spaniel . Two Komondor puppies tugging at their hideous white cords . High-heeled woman clasping a leather leash , asthmatic Affenpinscher pulling her toward a rickety mastiff with a sweet old rump but salty breath , like fried chicken and waffles . Wall Street was first , then Oakland and the university campuses .
“ Prepare to be amazed , ” Lisa shouted as she pulled on her customized brass goggles , she always had a flair for the dramatic when presenting her work . “ This will be a new age for mankind . No longer will you have to wait for a train that will inevitably be late ! I introduce to you , Personal Transport ! ” Saying this she pulled a cloth aside , revealing a wonder of brass and wood . As she stepped aboard the transport , a rumbling could be heard emanating from the device before it suddenly exploded into countless shards cutting short the promising career of the young inventor .
She shows me the pan of broiled bacon she ’ s just taken out of the oven . Frames it with her free arm as if she ’ s just performed a magic trick , as if the bacon ’ s a bunny . Oooh , I tell her . Ahhh . I swear , whenever I come back from Dad ’ s place , that woman ’ ll do anything to get my attention .
He meant to take a powder , another run at it , despite “ it ” not looking so good . Snow blinded , clutching one pole ( the other one missing , as well as one glove , one boot , one ski ) , he clung to the precipice , swaying on one leg . In the distance Sally ( lovely Sally ! ) leaped and flapped , her whole body a semaphore—was she trying to tell him something or just making fun of him ? Then Quizno flashed by , tall and dashing , followed by Sam , Rick , and Schlomo , handsome all , laying down a single trail of powder like a bright zigzaggy arrow angling toward oblivion .
The month she asks him to leave there are signs : earthquake , hurricane , a dead rabbit on the threshold . In retellings , she will claim to have buried the corpse , but in truth she scoops it with a shovel , puts it out with the next day ’ s trash . For weeks she arranges and rearranges piles—plates , cutlery , bedding , photographs—as if solving a complex equation . The day of his departure , the mantel clock stops . Inside , the dead cell oozes into gears , and though she scrapes away the corrosion , a new battery is not enough .
The bride floats between the stones . Her groom plays dead for an iPhone camera . Laughter spills from mouths sweet with spirits . A plaid blazer dances with a pearl necklace . The groom plants a fat kiss on his new wife ’ s lips under a marble angel with a chipped wing .
My story is one that can be told the world over , time and time again . My mother was native to her country , my father … one of the soldiers . I ’ m sure this story has been told in many languages of countries invaded by war . Mine happens to be in English this time around . They say I resemble him in certain ways but I have only my mother ’ s broken English and my stepfather ’ s animosity to go by .
Lou Beach ’ s 420 character stories inspired nearly more submissions in our 420 Character Story Contest than we could handle . After much pondering , Lou chose these three to win a copy of his book , . Rebel runs the House of Horrors ride . “ I ’ m not dangerous , ” he told me as I let his long , strong finger linger on my upper lip . I ’ d seen him balance a cannonball on that finger ; one heavy enough that even young Huck who is six-four and loads hardwood pulp for a living could barely manage with both hands .
I see you . Frozen in that absurd pose , mouth wide and smiling , tongue hanging nearly to your chin . “ Can you look any more bored ? ” I had asked , so sick of the same tired poses in front of those famous landmarks . I hadn ’ t expected that face to come . You hadn ’ t expected me to take your picture .
He ran knuckles along the Formica like a traveling music man practicing invisible scales . From behind the counter she slapped down an insurance form . You reserved a sub-compact but we have larger cars on the lot , she said . I usually rent a small one — I ’ m not going far , he replied . She kept looking , as this was no answer .
Sarah Jones stood outside of the abandoned store , waiting . Waiting for what , she wasn ’ t sure . The day before an old man had grabbed her on the street and said , “ Go to the corner of First and Maple at six tomorrow night . The change you pray for will find you. ” She hadn ’ t believed him , of course . Such a crazy old man .
I bask in delicious rays , my skin absorbing the heat others escape . Before me lies the turquoise sea meeting the cerulean sky at a point in the horizon where they become a blurry line . Beneath me , the coarse sand of Jamaica ’ s coastline where I pluck pieces of discernible rock and shell . Behind me are shacks and stalls . Women sit swatting flies and mosquitoes until they hear the crunch of a footstep on their gravel pathway .
Spit the harmonica man has been wailing for decades on the corner for change . After making his bus fare and enough for a loaf of bread , he packs up his life in his bicycle ’ s basket and waddles to somewhere , joints creaking , a hat covering bullet holes bored in the ’ 60s . Returning hours later , his belly heaving , he tells me he lost a notebook . It had two songs in it . Seeing nothing , I apologize .
The Conjuror , about to take the stage with his glamorous assistant . No , not assistant : . He dons the jacket of his plain suit—the rhinestones were binned on the day he finished counseling acknowledged his ego and vowed never again to be such a swell-headed diva . It had saved the act ( and probably his marriage ) . Now , “ WENDY ” emblazons the poster , and from tonight onward his wife will take both stage and applause first .
Smoking her cigarette seductively , surreptitiously surrendering to sweet and slow suicide , she stopped , struck . A man , monotone and moody , moving by the Manhattan marquee , was made motionless . Locking eyes , the lackadaisical love that lingered at first look loomed loftily in the late night . “ Hello , ” he hesitated , humbled . “ Nice night , ” she noted nonchalantly .
“ More fish ? ” My brother Stu ’ s perpetually golden wife tipped the plate in my direction . A mouthful of asparagus spared me from again explaining my vegetarian “ lifestyle. ” Stu ’ s word , which poked me into a state of fury . But other than these old rivalries , my brother was gone . Replaced by a real estate agent who checked his phone compulsively and wore crisp pants . The old Stu ate nothing but microwave pizzas the year our mother got divorced .
The first thing that struck us about was she knew how to take photos of rooms . Rooms with people , rooms without people . Sounds easy , but it ’ s not . She evokes stories as much as she evokes places . The second thing that struck us was her love of dissonance and blur , a preference for graininess over smooth surfaces , shadows over light , even when her subjects are the most beautiful of beautiful human bodies .
Three days ago I found a bucket lying in the street . It was a red plastic kind of pail that a kid might take to the beach . I wore it on my head all day and explained to people that I was from up North , and weren ’ t they afraid of bricks and things falling off of buildings here in the big city and crushing their skulls in ? Quite a few said , Yes , they were , and we parted amicably . Others said , No , you ’ re off your nut , but their eyes drifted over our heads anyway , to the teetering tops of those buildings .
In the corner of my windowless office , Tommy , my student , sits . With his flannel shirt , he looks like a farm boy who grew up driving tractors . He looks like a man . But he is from the city . He moves his body with rhythm I once thought only black boys had , or Latinos .
Poverty hung over the Lac Orielles reservation . Sullen faces stared and children hid behind run-down shacks , at my approach . A few stood their ground and stared blankly at me and my government-issue ATV . Now past the housing area I decided to stop and noticed a lone figure walking slowly toward me . As he got closer I saw him to be a big , burly Native American .
In a haze of sweaty , aggressive boredom , I went out in the yard to chop wood . I wanted a continent-sized bonfire , and I needed a lot of wood . I was shaking from insomnia . Violent little shudders . I couldn ’ t put words together .
My Uncle John was one of six siblings , the second oldest , the only fat one and my favorite . For 50 years I heard that if he didn ’ t lose weight he was going to die . This was an official family opinion , expressed one thousand times , yet I am unaware of John ever attempting a diet . He ate what he wanted and smoked cigars . His brothers and sisters shook their heads , wagged their skinny fingers and bided their time .
I ’ m running for the train , along the riverside . The river Wear brings happy memories but I don ’ t have time for them now . I am on my way to see my boyfriend , in his new home where I will live with him . It ’ ll be perfect , an idyllic life free from my torturous troubles . I run across the busy main road , not stopping or looking .
Raul saw “ The Twins ” Saturday morning . Uncle yelled at his ghost leg . Spray cans rattled and hissed . They painted old man Umberto on a wall with yellow skin , three stories tall . The ruffles from the red curtain tickled Raul ’ s neck .
My former dog reproached me in a dream . She was named Katrina , a spayed dachshund with a fat tummy . I had wanted a beagle and my parents told me a dachshund was a beagle with shorter legs . She walked with a wobble and embarrassed me in public . You completely underestimated me , she said in the dream .
I saw God today . He wore two left shoes and a holy raincoat ; that is to say , it was full of holes . God stood on the corner with a blank stare , supporting a cardboard plea ; it read , “ Obama ’ s not the only one that wants change. ” Last night my 4-year-old son looked up from his coloring book and asked , “ Why did God want us ? ” Dumbfounded , I said I didn ’ t know . He paused . “ I think everyone needs a friend , ” he said , and turned back to his crayons .
The last item on George ’ s to-do list . On his fridge is a photo of buffalo knee-deep in grass at the edge of a watering hole . We find stale cookies in the cookie jar . Toothbreakers , but homemade , and so we eat them and cry with each bite . With Merle Haggard on the turntable , we drink the port ( oh God : figs , truffles , then smoke ) .
Where is he ? And what ’ s taking so long ? He said he was taking my clothes out to “ Shake some sun into them , ” and I thought that was sweet , but how long does it take to shake the smell of our love out of a dress , and it ’ s getting cold in here . Wait , is that him , running up and down the street , laughing ? It is , and what—oh , God—is he wearing my dress ?
The unspoken rule was that marks couldn ’ t show at work . Bruises from thrown bottles , love bites from make-up sex : only below the collar , inside sleeves . The rule allowed for an unopened Coors that left a plum on Mitch ’ s ribs ; four matching buttons on Suzanne ’ s bicep . When they both got fired the same week , the rule became unnecessary . They glared across the living room , the pawned television like an absent referee .
We saw the spray paint on the pavement . Lines and arrows . A football diagram . Stage directions . This , the X said , is where the bicyclist died .
I see a tree . A calm , ethereal entity . It is infused with a bluish white light . Its trunk is wide and firmly rooted to the ground . I ’ ve heard that when a person draws a tree , it ’ s actually a self-portrait .
She figures that the hospital is like an airplane ; you can tell your bedmate anything and never see her again . Between them , a paper curtain pushed open . “ What are you in for ? ” asked the wrinkled woman in the smooth white bed . “ Stupidity . Thievery .
Tokyo 2004 : A fling with a man named Jeremiah , who you might guess , is not Japanese , but American like me ; the off-white teeth we identify non-actors by . We met on a banana boat , after his hands locked around my belly . I didn ’ t have time to turn , but I would have recognized his lust , lying crooked on my shoulder . We kissed and circumvented the bay until the world was too tired to move the water . The docking fine we had to pay for the missing boat was nothing , almost a prize it seems now , a memory I ignorantly return to in loneliness .
I slipped . All right ? I made an ass of myself . I got drunk , shouted things , I don ’ t know what things , stupid things , next thing I know three cops bust in , pull me off the window ledge . I didn ’ t exactly “ assault ” them—well maybe I threw stuff .
Friday night at the local park . The policeman approaches our group and raises his voice . “ Stop this nonsense , ” he snarls , grabbing me by the scruff of the neck . As I let out a squeak , he focuses in on my face and recoils , horrified . I am a girl .
Waves and thunderous storms entered into tag team competition with my nervous stomach and tequila hangover , or so I ’ ve been told . Never been much for the fruits of the nectar . Years of perfecting my craft with a boat-load of patience has finally paid off . Broadway audition ! My only focus is on excellence for this performance .
I was 23 , working lunches as a waiter at Giorgio ’ s Restaurant just outside of Boston—and I got asked out by a 40-year-old recovering cocaine addict with three kids who was on parole for punching another woman . She wanted me to go to a karaoke bar with her . Her youngest son used to come in to get Cokes to go—he ’ d always flatten his dollar bills out before he ’ d give them to me—so that they didn ’ t have any wrinkles in them . His mother said that growing up in a crack house will do that to a person . :
My aunt declares she ’ s “ tough as nails. ” I envision tying knots in her hair , nailing each one to the wall , and letting her hang there while she tells me how to put my future husband ’ s wingtips by the door , how to hold a shot of hooch and prance around in heels one size too small . She spits , “ No man wants a clodhopper , ” and pats me on the back—next batter up—as if we played for the same team . Now I ’ m moving in . Her two sons lug trash bags jam-packed with my things to the basement . I forgot my hammer .
I should have worn a feather , the artist said at the uptown opening . She , who was infatuated , looked at him askance . A feather ? Yes , a feather ! I can ’ t believe you ’ ve never seen me in my feather !
Jake was the sweet one , soft-fingered and summer-haired . Jeremy was the smart one , easy authority and a Gibson guitar . Both turned toward her at the cowboy dance under the desert stars . Drinking Coors out of keg cups , they touched their hats . The city girl blushed , thrilled down to her new Justin boots .
If a tornado takes the ceiling , what will that dark intruder see ? The cloud of freckles above Sarah ’ s knee , the blonde slip that tugs at her thigh . She tells me she has never been naked in front of a boy , a cyclone of timidity and inaction . The air is vague and clouded , like the aftermath of an argument . A cold wind blows through me as I cross the street for a candy bar and a coffee .
The affair ended both our marriages , but then she married some totally other guy . She liked the rigor and formality of his approach . For example he insisted she call herself Elizabeth instead of Betty . A gimmick , I thought . As consolation , she vowed to attend my funeral .
Tommy “ The Torch ” handed me four fingers of single malt Scotch . I savored a long pull . He aimed a Colt 45 over my shoulder and triggered a shock wave that destroyed my hearing and flapped my cheeks . I set my glass down and waited for his lips to stop . “ That was loud as shit .
Dog-walking , I spy them in the roadside grass : an empty Chick-fil-a cup , a used condom . Two houses down , a boy punches a soccer ball into his garage door , the smack of synthetic leather against wood making me wonder which will break first . His mother died in a drug deal last year , but I still imagine her around some corner , hidden , urging him toward a school bus he may or may not board . When he pauses , I stop too , thinking about the myriad ways that families get made—unmade . But then a rabbit materializes beside a bush .
I kept seeing elephants in Paris . The first was in the Menageries du Jardin des Plantes , and there aren ’ t any elephants there . The elephant was by the camels and then by the giant donkey . I remembered a movie where there ’ s an elephant room for courtesans , so I sat down by the flamingos and looked it up on my phone . There had been an elephant room in Montmartre .
Joe ordered his first kit from a hobby magazine sent to his cell mate . The house was an antebellum plantation with a blue-papered bathroom and white columns . It had staircases and a library full of tiny books with real pages . The house was populated by little doll people , also ordered from the back pages , who would never , ever in their little doll lives rob the doll bank , armed with a tiny doll gun , shoot two of the doll tellers , and be sent to doll prison . It just wouldn ’ t happen .
I want to tell her the five most important things she needs to know before she leaves , but we haven ’ t spoken all morning . I made the coffee without being asked . She took it the same way . I say five , but there could be more . I ’ m sure there are more , but five is a good , round number , I think .
Boy and Girl meet in the river , and when Girl points with seductive slowness at a school of silver danio , Boy dives in to capture one . He places the fish in her hand , and she brings it near her face , feels its muscles twist , smells its glimmering scent . Later , Boy grows into Man . Often he wonders if Girl remembers him . The answer : Yes .
Tim flipped a dashboard switch and a red light blinked . When Larry got in the car , Tim pulled out . “ So , ” Larry growled , “ whadda want now ? ” “ You ’ re abusing her . First , cuts and bruises . Now broken bones ? ” “ Just an accident .
A daughter cuts her long hair with a butter knife and places her heart inside a turtle shell . Loaded on vodka she passes out in an alley behind a bar where Trickster plants his seed inside her . She births a daughter , wraps her in burdock leaves and paper beer bottle labels and leaves her at the Indian Health Services doorstep . The young mother washes her face in her tears and wipes them over her baby ’ s cheeks . As she walks away strawberries sprout and blossom around her daughter .
Each night as the sirens sounded , the violin maker would carry it with him into the neighborhood shelter—held upright , wrapped like a child in his arms . After the all-clear he ’ d return to his little apartment , set it gently on the table unlatched . Inside , plush yellow lining was losing its nap ; a rosin cake fractured in shards . The violin maker would rub his sore knee , sigh . His daughters wished he ’ d move to the country .
I struck up a conversation with a fire-tressed goddess . We bonded over our preflight jitters and she entered the cabin on my arm . The lights dimmed and her knuckles went white in my hand . I held my breath . She vomited on my loafers , and I fell in love .
The clock hands spun at random speeds . They watched for some amount of time : Dre ’ s beard grew and Debbie ’ s Afro pulled her scalp . There was a broken chair , cobblestones—no walls . Stacks of magazines lay underneath a lamp . Debbie saw the bulb was out when the clock spun the hundredth time .
“ Daven ” comes from “ divine , ” and what ’ s more divine than a lovely divan on rollers , a real holy roller . If you get on the backside of a donkey , you ’ ll learn to bray . Never paddle in a puddle or peddle your paddle in a river or split hairs over a fallen petal . Let the seeds fly into the bad man ’ s eyes . Let flax or flux drift down over the black tuxes .
The sideshow ’ s latest attraction is Brad , a darkly handsome electrician , and his chocolate poodle Rex . They sleep in a featherbed and snore in perfect rhythm . Last summer Brad ’ s wife kicked him out because of his snoring and Brad ’ s grief was so immense it inspired Rex to synchronize his snores . It was only a matter of time before a talent scout heard them through an open window and the show was packed . Sometimes Brad ’ s ex-wife sneaks in .
She pretended to miss him , but really it was like vacation when he was gone . The glimmering auburn cows next door , the rusted iron wheels in the corner of the barn : everything looked postcard . She opened beers in the sun , pouring them into a glass she had hidden in the freezer , an icy extravagance that he might well have enjoyed , though he would have complained about it anyway . Her secrets were not ugly , but they did involve glass : she liked to throw the beer bottles into a heap , then , when it was almost dark , load the shotgun and deconstruct them into shards . And she did not feel dirty doing it ; after pulling the trigger not one but three times , she lowered the gun to her side and felt the breeze consume her like a wave .
Last night I did clinical paperwork and slept while my friends shot whiskey in the living room . Tonight , they ’ re at a party playing beer pong and I ’ m sipping hot chocolate on the gray couch , the one Simon gave me that ’ s so old the leather has dissolved into wrinkles . Miles the Siamese cat stalks my hair while I read the pharmaceuticals textbook . Tomorrow I imagine more of the same and I ’ m not sure who , in 10 years , will be sorriest : my impoverished friends , my rich high-living high-blood pressure high-balling self , or the cat , who will be dead . I guess the cat .
I unpack boxes , the stuff you left , nothing that you needed for the afterlife . I am itchy from the yellow age of all these keepsakes : frilly birthday greetings ; proof of vaccinations , polio , diphtheria ; report cards from St. Cyril ’ s . I find the ponytail that you cut off , my thick brown hair ; and a tiny baby tooth in paper , and in your hand , December 1959 . I remember how it felt , my pink tongue hastening its escape from my fresh mouth . I waited for the fairies , but they never came for that little clue , proof that I lived once , at least to five .
I saw you sitting on top of an iceberg yesterday . You were fishing . I was kayaking when I saw you and thought about paddling by to say hi , but you seemed intensely preoccupied . Some friendly advice : You ’ re in the wrong area if you ’ re trying to catch fish . You ’ ll find better luck at -84.507816 , -121.345314 .
I was being mean all morning so she would stop nagging we should get married . She is being nice back . She spots two trophy heads with antlers , “ Cute ! Mr. and Mrs . Deer ! ” I laugh , “ Are you stupid or what ?
Great Aunt Marie ’ s house hosted a flock of angelic porcelain babies . Suspended from the ceiling , they gazed into the distance with blank devotion , their lips parted rapturously . I plucked a string hanging over the kitchen table . Its baby spun woozily and smacked into a cabinet . “ Stop , ” Dad said .
Mom ’ s sick today , so Robby and I are in the pew unsupervised , tussling over the Etch-A-Sketch . Behind the pulpit , Dad pauses , glares us quiet , then grins apologetically at his congregation . Everyone laughs . I sulk , make silent vows . Christ is risen indeed .
Is there a trick to leering at careful ? She practiced on the airporter bus , but her mouth just went into a frown . That won ’ t do , she said in a low but audible voice . I mustn ’ t arrive for my fling with my mind in safe mode . She imagined those free women with long hair like Venus on the shell , the ones who assumed , rightly so , that they would fancy a man who wanted to make love and children with them .
You said it was not the way cabbage tasted , but the way it felt to be told it was important to eat what was on the plate no matter how tough or spongy . To say , “ Wow , delicious ! ” When dinner was over , the brothers shuffled away and you helped your mother laugh through cough-syrup breath . Your brothers wouldn ’ t try . Made sense you were the man I ’ d finally come with ; the one who said “ I want you to beg me for me. ” I imagined wearing a pinafore . Seemed a fitting thing when you put a candle on your life , blew it out .
Alone , I stay on my side of the bed—the left side . I have the freedom to move about and yet I cling to the edge of the mattress in a semi-fetal position , like a puppy who has been trained to stay . On others I lay on my stomach , gripping my pillow with both hands , elbows out , like I am holding onto a life raft in the middle of the ocean . Then there are the times I am so tired I fall into my nest , legs and arms falling where they may . Most nights find me facing toward his side .
My father talks of razors and points to the hallway . “ I know she took my razor , ” he says . “ I need to shave. ” He spits into a Kleenex and fiddles with his call button . “ They won ’ t let you have sharp things in nursing homes , ” I say . “ Don ’ t worry .
Out in the woods behind the lake house . Morning . Cold gloom clouds and sleet . Lake ’ s frozen , but in one spot it ’ s all sloppy , like somebody threw a tantrum on it just when it was getting ready to turn smooth and glassy . Aaron ’ s shivering from whisky and no sleep .
My mother was crazy . “ And misery loves company , ” said Dad . When I was six I cried because the water was hurt as it boiled . Poor water . I wailed .
The sign read “ Pollution , ” “ Toxic , ” “ Biohazard ” on bright red metal . But Qin could not read , and he knew that red meant prosperity in his home country . The river ran clear like cyanide in a sparkling glass . He dipped a toe into the water , then an eager foot , a knee , a pause for the birds that flew overhead , and then the plunge of pale ears and all . His black hair swished to the surface , a farewell wave to the black birds cawing above .
A young couple argues unabashedly on the corner . We are nowhere near as brave . We don ’ t dare air our grievances with one another outside , though I wish we would . When others hear , it no longer belongs to us—the thing that ignited us in the first place . The city absorbs our voices and they lose power .
On Tonle Sap Lake , an orphan boy floats on a metal pail . A snake hangs on his shoulders as he smiles to a tourist ’ s camera and charges “ one dollah ” per click . Instead , the tourist hands him noodles she bought from a store nearby . They embrace . Smiling , the tourist feels the 60 dollars for the boat ride , noodles , and tip for the guide was worth it .
The Doctor ’ s Wife , The Doctor ’ s Wife The second time Nancy and the Doctor ’ s Wife go on TV , they ’ ve prepared a formal speech . The Doctor ’ s Wife wears a tweed suit . The children are once again thrilled , and it seems like the vote will pass with no trouble . “ I think we did it , ” the Doctor ’ s Wife says to Nancy . “ You need to know how to yell and stomp your feet to get things done .
My wife and I were on a break , which , to a man , means noticing unbroken things . For instance , I convinced myself that the ceiling fan spun the wrong way . So I deftly undid the wire nuts and replaced it with a new one , then put the old one on the curb , upside-down . The ground looked like some never-ending ceiling . That ’ s when I noticed the little switch that changed the blades ’ direction .
It ’ s what we say when we can ’ t say anything in the dim lights , strong drinks , and vacant smiles . We are not here . She is not laughing . He is not touching her waist . I am not drinking to forget , but to remember , each greasy five and ten a ticket to what was and what will be again in the images buried under the smoke of the slivered china , her broken clasp , the slam of the screen door .
All the clocks show different times and she can ’ t get herself off the couch . She just keeps counting to figure out which one ticks closest to reality . The bicycle one is five minutes ahead of the TV one , which is three and a half minutes behind the mounted , yellow one . She doesn ’ t actually care about the time , but she thinks if she counts the time ’ s difference actively enough it ’ ll be equal to actual activity . And the yellow one is at least seven minutes fast .
On the day of my funeral , I hid my favorite body parts . Buried my heart underneath a moon rock . Stuffed my eyeballs in the carved sockets of a snowman . Planted a lock of hair in the Great Barrier Reef . My mother was so sad .
When we heard Lorraine died , a silent wave passed across our ocean of cubicles , dissipating as it rippled out , disappearing altogether in the corners of 4-South where they knew her only as that woman in Payables who was sick for so long . Marion put her head down , looked through her craft drawer , and made a note to buy a sympathy card for us to sign . Slowly work resumed ; the rising sound of clicking keyboards and burbling voices was like crabs and the simmering pot . The young manager pulled a Lifesaver from Lorraine ’ s candy dish . Marion had been keeping it full .
We waited , but it never came . So we stopped looking out the window , didn ’ t mention it in prayers . Rain picked up at the Old Testament pace . Cars flooded . Bridges unhinged .
On the street , I pass a man eating a sandwich and the waft of onion walks with me a while . The rattle of metal tags on a collar and I always have to look , make sure the dog isn ’ t loose and fierce . Three weeks ago , my mother died and I thanked God . This week , a glance at her photograph reminds , feels like a slap to my heart . The cards , flowers , and phone calls have stopped .
We were only boys . Spike-hearted teenagers with round rescue-me eyes . We threaded our Docs with fat red laces . Our hair fell in piles , skulls shiny as eggs . We rolled in tattooed crews .
Sister got a job working graveyard shift at Walgreens . She ’ d been kicked out of every other job for stealing . The manager , an old Korean lady , told sister , you talk , but hear nothing . Two weeks on the job , some sweat-drenched guy came up alongside sister , pressed a gun to her head . He was bone-thin , shaking , stank of fear .
It ’ s no surprise that Meg Tuite ’ s favorite word is “ implosion. ” Her flash pieces are fraught with the kind of drama that can ’ t be contained . Bystanders beware . Her characters are unlikely to go down alone . Just read her . Tuite is the fiction editor of and .
Reg and Carol were lovers who never made love . They kissed once , but their lips felt too warm , too moist . They met weekly during lunch at an abandoned elementary school , sat in the dusty desks , played cards , chess , completed crosswords . They discoed to Bee Gees ’ songs in the hollow hallways . They rescued a cardinal trapped in the old gym .
Morning followers ! Porridge as per ! Another day , another dollop . Lol . Dreamt again about H. Wizard !
On brush crew in Los Padres , Cindergal begs to work the line . When there , she ’ s useless . Snot , smoke , ash . A choked axe , Cindergal is slow on her shovel . Her daydream—blasting past Olympic legend Francie Larrieu—almost cost her crew their lives .
My mother called me a few days after the mosque fell . We had gone to India together earlier that year , when debates over whether the sixteenth century mosque had been built on the ruins of a temple dominated the national news . I told her that the news upset me . She said the Muslims got what they deserved . Shocked , I reminded her of her Muslim friends and of the kind face of religious tolerance that Hinduism wore .
Skipping school , mittened boys skim stones as the ’ 58 Oldsmobile , loaded with gloved and hatted Sunset Retirement Home ladies , passes . The women wave and the boys watch their faces , hear Big Band music . What could they do , those two , but watch as the Olds slow-slides over the embankment and sinks , ladies ’ mouths gaping , hands drumming , then splaying like starfish against glass ? What could they do but confess truancy and try to get someone to believe they saw what they saw ? What could the boys—accidental heroes of the lost—say when divers reached the drowned car and forced doors open ?
He slammed out the door . What just happened ? She loved him . He loved her . What just happened ?
She ’ s turning into silence , so she sings in the car , in the shower , in bed . Even hums as she eats—not an easy thing to do . Her mother calls each Tuesday ; she answers in a singsong . They talk about the weather . Her mother wishes it would rain .
A Goodwill painting , a stony abstract , not bad . Black Sharpie slashes its canvas back—To Michelle , from Rodney . It juts from the cart ’ s jumbled flannels and porcelains . To Michelle , from Rodney . You invent them .
The shoe store man who wears shiny brown suits and looks like Scott Baio came to my leg warmer kiosk yesterday with an Orange Julius . I figure he ’ ll ask me out tonight , so I cut class to lay out . “ Bain de Soleil for the St. Tropez tan ” : the gel smells sweet and dangerous , blood mixed with oranges . It reminds me of the sex I haven ’ t had yet , of skinny girls and European men . Of all the things I will resent when I am older .
Her box said Susie-bot , but he called her Cindy . Susie-bot was more suitable , but such a name would have hindered the experience . After all , she was supposed to be the latest advancement in wife-simulating technology . He ’ d put off buying her for a year , unable to believe the hype , but she really was far superior to a human wife . It even said so on the box .
Carve out the stone of a peach , tap the clay pipe against the sink , wrap your hands in bandages and bleed . Smile and cut the fruit into sweet meat pieces . Try not to mind when more than one hand pulls at your skin . Ignore the phone ; ignore his smile when he answers . Pretend his face isn ’ t full of cracks and lines and his voice no longer sounds like summer winds smoked by ash and sunlight .
The letters were crude block capitals , searing ink poked into the skin on her thighs with a sewing needle wielded by her own hand . Beginning below the groin of each leg , scrolls of names were etched in her skin like notches carved in the handle of an old western revolver : Tom , Jim , William , Hank , Fred , Matthew , John . There were a lot of Johns . And , others . Unknown men answered the wanted poster tattooed above the cross straps of her sandals : let ’ s fuck .
The woman taught her daughters at home . Homeschooled . Homeschoolers . She taught them how to sentence diagram and to read the map of the world—plastered big against the wall , eight feet wide and six feet tall . She taught them how to dance dirty , a secret to hide from her husband .
We were built too quickly . Our hands never even got a chance to blister . We were hot wires twisting ; the surges went chaotic , unprotected . It was thrilling at first . The energy awake and the attraction pulsing .
After we fight , I dream I ’ m milking a cow and the udder tastes like mint chocolate . Dream-You says the milk tastes regular , sour even . I say it ’ s a miracle . Over pancake breakfast , I tell you that Mary Shelley , only nineteen , dreamed of Frankenstein . You say she died of a brain tumor at fifty-three .
I scan her half of the closet . Her favorite color was blue . She first lost herself in my cornflower eyes , she once said . Today I choose the silky dress with a thousand hydrangea petals . The short skirt will display my lean runner ’ s legs , another feature she loved .
What the fudge cake am I even doing here ? Jesus this train stinks . Knew I should have gone first class . But oh no , there ’ s me trying to be frugal down here with the peasants . And here comes the ticket guy again .
Connie huddled near the doorway with the other seven smokers from the office , trying to avoid a slanting downpour , enduring dirty looks from the pure-lunged majority who passed through the cancer cloud they were creating . Peggy Cochran even had the balls to fake a cough , that sanctimonious cunt . Connie leaned back against the NO SMOKING WITHIN 25 FEET sign , blocking the circled cigarette with a red slash through it . She wondered which was harder , quitting smoking or finding a single thing she had in common with these people besides an addiction . Suddenly everyone laughed at something , so Connie laughed too .
I. II . Like before : I kept a list of paper cuts and cramps—the sullen of ( you ) th—the taste of tin , the smell of antibiotics hemorrhaging at midnight . III . Minnow , you are a tiny butter pear , you quicken like a bruise . IV .
You are unfaithful to the principles of by Godard he says to you . He is teaching you the Art of Jilting , Introduction to Hipster Courtship . He means this remark to be cutting . You understand that until you have repented of your uncouthness and been baptized in the French New Wave you can not be saved . You went to see with this boy who found Jane Austen trite .
I went to the exhibit ; I met everyone in U of I ’ s indigenous drum group and asked their names and Tribal affiliation , stating mine . A handsome singer , a Coeur d ’ Alene Chicken Dancer , drove me home and told me bad rez jokes , by Sherman Alexie on the floor of his beat-up pick-up . My , my . He told me , “ You ’ re beautiful ; come be beautiful around me. ” Later , he fucked me , his intensive thrusting in no way indicative of his dance training , his sweet singing , and I was sorry for it , and dry as the prairies where he danced with all that passion . :
If he ’ d found out about the heroin , we ’ d been over sooner . Maybe that would have been better . He was Christian and wore a tiny gold cross under his shirt . He had tatts as well . They weren ’ t super religious-y , just something from the Apocalypse .
You forgot a few things around the apartment—a couple books , your toothbrush , a sweater that had fallen behind the couch . Penny watches from the window , crooning like a hound dog , her wet nose pressed upon the glass panel , waiting for your beat-up work boots to make their way up the gravel driveway . I know better than to wait , I replace . Jack Daniels , Jane Austen novels , a vibrator , and on braver days , strays from the local bar—a teacher ’ s assistant , a carpenter , the kind that slip home in the mornings to better things , leaving nothing to remember them by . Photo credit :
I had a friend in Philadelphia whose name was Rue , like regret . I had to drag her out of her double type of smoke-filled home for whiskey , but public whiskey—at least it was public—and she noticed the roaches climbing up the velveteen wallpaper , skittering about as if they owned the place . We had entered through the Ladies ’ Entrance , but what ’ s the difference , really ? She died anyway , alone of heart-sink . “ Don ’ t drink two blocks up north , ” the bartender advised .
When we piled stones in the courtyard , the soldiers kicked them down . We planted flowers , the soldiers ripped them out . Monuments are forbidden . Monuments are memories , and that ’ s what the soldiers want to destroy—the past . One night we went in to Sergei ’ s trashed apartment : piles of urine-stained books the soldiers had pissed on ; harmless canvases sliced with bayonets .
I pretend fate is a dog . Not a Retriever . Nor is fate a working dog ; fate has never worked a day in its life . And not a Shepherd or a Dobie . Fate doesn ’ t bark at mailmen or catch Frisbees .
I sat next to a stranger at The Octopus Bar . She had long grey hair , a freakishly young face , a body as lithe as a yoga teacher . The fingertips of her right hand were blackened . She caught me staring . She confessed it was from the second to last lover .
Riding skateboards in your ex school parking lot , we circle each other and talk about age . Your beer is stale and we miss the youth we were too shy to live . Your father says your neighbor is dead . How ? Train .
It was movie night , and the old Jewish milkman was asking his wife if he she loved him after all those years . With singing , of course . My wife grabbed my hand and squeezed it hard . When the song ended she turned and looked at me like , hey , we ’ re like that too , aren ’ t we ? I smiled weakly .
Today she ’ s a hot cheerleader , the next day she ’ s dressed like a nun . She knows me , she ’ s a mind reader . Yes , plastic dolls are lots of fun . I ’ m hoping she lasts till December , that ’ s when the warranty expires . If not I ’ ll date her twin sister who ’ s stored away beside the snow tires .
I may have lost my hair . And I ’ m getting fat , even though I can ’ t eat ( cruel joke ) , but I would apply mascara for him ( if I had eyelashes ) . Because he ’ s adorable . He doesn ’ t know this , which makes him more adorable with his clipboard of lab results and his pocket protector ( pocket protector ! who uses one of those ? ) .
Marriage # 1 in white dress and Spanish laced veil with hundreds of my parent ’ s friends assembled for the spectacle . Six ladies in waiting paired with six eager boy wonders . The rabbi called it the “ match of the century. ” It produced two lovely , strong women , but petered out . Marriage # 2 a legal , administrative act to legitimize my second love of 20-plus years . Because now we can .
I took my grandfather out to dinner for his birthday , because it seemed the proper thing to do . Neither of us particularly wanted to go to dinner together , but since he was alone and I happened to be visiting town during his birthday , I felt compelled to insist . My grandfather and I don ’ t have much in common ; he ’ s a retired arms dealer , I am a circus clown . But after some torturous small talk concerning weather and health , as the meal began , we were finally able to come together as family in the way we treated our waitress like total shit . :
First it was cartons and tins on the worktops , then newspapers on the stairs . Each window-sill sparkled with tin foil . He made me a necklace of ring-pulls and bottle tops . Like swans we perched on our bundles of rags and flattened boxes , smoothing the creases from wrappers . The hallway was Manhattan , a canyon of towering piles .
He said he liked to be scientific about it . Stick his finger in and feel around . “ What ’ s that ? ” “ This part is really soft. ” “ I feel ripples. ” He called her “ receptive. ” She wanted it to mean he thought she was a great lover , but it didn ’ t feel like that ’ s what it meant . Would he call her “ receptive ” if she lay still , stiff legged and unbending ? It bothered her how unaware he was of her role , less valued than the anemone she followed him over jagged rocks to see .
A girl swallows a matchstick , stifles the slow burn in the hollow of her throat . She wants a home , she says , smoke curling from her tongue . Come to my place , the boy offers , kicking aside piles of ashes . She follows him into the flames—hair singed , eyes sealed shut . Painting her eyelids with cinders , she smiles wide into the melting mirror , warped and wounded .
Cast-iron stove on the sidewalk . Pans in the snow . I ’ m looking up at our balcony . How ’ d she get the stove over the railing ? She ’ s throwing away my cooking supplies .
Lenin ’ s receiving in his Moscow Mausoleum . He ’ s done quite well death-wise . Countless fans drop by to see him . Of course he doesn ’ t get around a lot these days , but in a vague sort of way , he seems vigorous , as if maybe he could bounce out a few high somersaults on a trampoline . Although they don ’ t allow close inspections , he looks , at the official distance , like one of those lucky guys who never had a pimple .
She was good at trimming . Fastidious . He paid her $ 879 in cash . On time . But he was getting weird .
Widows are beautiful , he thought . So covered in need they shimmered . This was his third . She lay under a sheet , which had a hole burnt into it earlier from a pot seed exploded from a joint . The size of a lizard ’ s eye .
Her trip to England didn ’ t go well . As her return ship scudded past the Statue of Liberty , the baby sloshed in her belly . He was a toothsome Brit with an interest in Anglo-American relations . Before she encountered his Expeditionary Force they had a drunken discussion about George Washington . She recalled his rude comment in Received Pronunciation , “ I suppose one man ’ s patriot is another man ’ s traitor. ” By morning the father of her country was gone .
In the end she stayed in her ratty white bathrobe , strummed her guitar all day , smoked cigarettes , ate apple pie from the box , quit taking showers . The 1770 House Inn had no central heating . She went to New Jersey to see her mother . She said she ’ d be back , but we both knew she wouldn ’ t . I kept a fire in the fireplace , slept in my clothes on top of the blankets so I never had to make the bed .
My sister is living in Shanghai on a temporary work visa . We text when she ’ s having her coffee and a bowl of congee and I ’ m getting ready for bed . She ’ s staying in a 40th-floor studio apartment . She eats dumplings for lunch and dinner . She ordered a custom-made coat in red , but she may need it altered because of all the dumplings .
You say , I ’ ll take care of it , because packing together would hurt too much . He stacks his things : clothes , books , photos . Hire someone , he says . I ’ ll pay . This is for the best , he says , and you say , I know .
Well , I ’ ll tell you : They want to know why some characters get long stories while they get Micro , Sudden , Flash . Why some characters get cities or towns , streets , homes with dog houses and dogs that howl in the night . Why those homes have rooms that matter , dining rooms where plates are broken or someone opens an aged Bordeaux , bedrooms where lust gives way to murder or love . They want scenes awash in back story , then the rush of rapids , steep falls , or floods . They want it to lead to something that is something else .
To have something to do , they drove around the city after nightfall listening to music . Beastie Boys . Digable Planets . Some fuzzy mixed tape a DJ sold before leaving for St. Louis . They would end up at Denny ’ s smoking cigarettes and drinking coffee , talking William S. Burroughs and waiting for the guy to show with a sack .
Muriel ’ s vintage cocktail dress . Mint-green fabric—chiffon , maybe ? Charmeuse ? I wrecked it skinning my knee . That night , my blood was pink as Boone ’ s Strawberry Hill .
She asked me once what ’ s it like not to dream and I said : Nothing . Imagine nothing , the vast black of it . Like climbing into a mineshaft , the way my dad did every day until the earth opened up and swallowed him and a dozen other men . You ’ re not your father , she insists . But I am .
No one has said anything about the magpies . They fell through the ceiling like weights , their bodies spilling like ink onto the kitchen floor . I had been there in the doorway . They leave piles of oil-drenched feathers on our pillows , in our sink . No one has said anything , but one night I snuck out and saw Mum holding a broom dripping wet with black grease .
The dark flees from the beams of light like a thousand timid spiders to the surviving shadows . Cursing and wielding a fifth of his sense , Benjamin stumbles out of his father ’ s running station wagon and kisses the crumbling courtyard , bloodying his lip . Standing with tight curling fingers he fills his fist with stones and throws them inside , stirring only the dust beneath her . With a breaking voice that betrays his bravery , he yells madly with each throw : Devil . Witch .
It has always been like this inside the woods : trees subdivide the sky , flowers track the sun , moss and stone make configurations along streambeds drying in summer ’ s heat . Today there is a fastening and then an unfastening as three girls who play there become something else . Two transform themselves from girls to killers back into girls . They toss knives in the dry river like skipping rocks , shed bloodied clothing like pulling wings off a fly , dance like butterflies in dappled sunlight . They cover one ’ s body with sticks , with stones , with dried leaves that crackle like tinder in their small fists .
Her peaches and bruised complexion haunt the flat . Bandaged in oversized sweaters , she ’ s shrinking . He spills over the couch , thick skinned , swelling as he chews upon her nerve . He indicates for her to sit in the tiny space he ’ s made . She makes her excuses , frightened of him , but more frightened still of her diminishing frame slipping down into the leathery crevices of the couch where coins that worked themselves loose of his pockets and detritus that escaped his fat lips are buried .
Mabel positions wood over the glowing newsprint ashes , and blows until they catch . Stephen flings a folded-up greeting card with hearts and glitter into the flames , a plastic bottle of scotch , half-gone , passing between them . With her own boyfriend poised to leave her for a woman with four cats and a weaving loom , Mabel thought Stephen might make good company tonight . It starts to pour ; the sky pulses with lightning . Mabel lunges for the porch ’ s shelter , but Stephen bolts out deeper into the yard .
Fitz threw a good party . I only left because I never linger till the downside of anything . I was nearly to my car when Fitz yelled , “ Drive fast , take chances ! ” I turned and saw him grinning on the porch , arm around my ex-girlfriend Karen . Despite the potential for awkwardness there was none . We ’ re amicable adults with suitable loose grips on history .
Sophie left Chicago for Panama City , Florida . She made the trip every year , toward the end of February . In Panama , she ate burgers . She watched game shows . She went to flea markets .
This is how I remember it , what I saw from my window my first night as an orphan . Two trees , backlit by a low-slung moon , took turnabout gesturing at one another . The larger quaked and wailed , and the other shrugged its branches . When one nodded toward me , I retreated from the glass . Had I clambered out to join them , perhaps I ’ d have led a bolder life .
He strutted into a grad-student party at midnight , everyone dancing , me the baby professor they could see right through , in a proper skirt , after a deadly faculty dinner . Tall , dark and handsome , lean , in an old tweed jacket that had been his dad ’ s , he carried a twelve-pack , friends high-fiving him , and I thought , That guy ’ s trouble . Then I saw him on a street corner talking to a girl in a pink fuzzy hat , as snow fell , and he looked down at her so tenderly , it hurt my ribs . Why didn ’ t I have someone to look down at me like that ? He blocked my path , at the water fountain and along the wooden walkway on campus .
If I painted , I would have a blood orange period to rival Picasso ’ s blue period . I ’ d spend years teasing out the infinite variety of their marbled blushings , these enchanted orbs illuminated from within by some mysterious dark radiance . Still lifes , of course , but also landscapes with the oranges foregrounded so they are more prominent than mountains or ocean , echoing the setting sun on one canvas , the full moon rising on another . Abstract explosions of purple and orange . If some modern Medici paid me enough , I ’ d paint him—nearly eclipsed by the ravishing fruit glowing in the palm of his hand .
Aunt Enid did not look like the rest of us , although she bore the slightest resemblance to Aunt Grace . Inevitable , I suspected , for two women who lived together their entire lives , dining from the same limited menu , breathing the same air , leaving the same swirls of dust in their wakes . They were discovered one day in 1927 bound in death and each other ’ s stiff arms , not like sisters , more like fallen soldiers . Mom , who shared Grace ’ s broad forehead and thin lips , said they were comrades in their own war . History books make no mention of it , but I eventually understood .
When there is no wind I imagine that I am at Lake Bled with Pasha . The water is so flat and still . Pasha stands naked apart from his water wings . His white bum twitches when the cold moves through him . He flaps his arms a little , his wings might float on air .
What I heard over the thrum of washing machines and dryers was complaint . She says to no one , he loved anchovies more than her , then rolls her eyes and sets loose a whistle that wheezes into a cough . She ’ s too thin to be pregnant , carrying her basket of faded underwear , next to her swollen belly , the shape of a goldfish bowl . She wants to leave this one trailer park town and go to Florida . She folds her underwear into tiny triangles .
He learned to sign so that he could communicate with her , so that they could share speech without speaking . He learned how to move his hands and where to place his fingers , so rapid , so precise . He made her laugh , that high pitched squeal of sorts that she could not hear . His words were poetry in his hands . It was his actions that angered her .
Bernard checks the advice on the website again : 8.02 . The bus arrives in ten minutes . He prays she will be on it . In front of the hall mirror he adjusts his new houndstooth newsboy cap . It hides his monks ’ crown .
On cold nights , I drove around the world with your babies in the car . Mainly , because I couldn ’ t sleep . It was winter . Christmas time . I remember it was brisk one night .
I recognize her stern chin in flakes of peeling paint , her priggish nose upon water-stained ceilings . And now her profile , a cameo brooch pinned against fractured pavement . Great-grandmother . She ’ s far less frightening in these ghostly apparitions than she was in life , beckoning me into her arms , an offering of dusty lemon drops like petrified eggs in a nest of withered palms . Ashamed of how I ’ d pushed her away , recoiled from her dry embrace of cobwebs and corn husks , her perfume of mothballs and urine , I kneel to the ground and kiss her milky cheek .
The poet had been sleeping with the painter ’ s wife for three months when , in a wave of guilt , he confessed everything . The three never spoke again . But the painter ’ s wife went on to become a physicist of world renown , author of equations that helped explain the formation of matter , recipient of many awards and honors . At age 72 , she heard that the poet and the painter had died on the same day many years before . That evening she wrote out the story of her life , beginning with the words “ The poet had been sleeping with the painter ’ s wife– ”
I. Lightly padded , half cup , blue polkas . Manhattan . Madison Avenue brownstone . First floor , Hermes . Second floor , Hamlet .
glancing into that abandoned place you wouldn ’ t see it . you ’ d see last year ’ s dead tomato vines staked like giant , vanquished spiders against the crusty soil ; a crumpled purple bathing suit blown from a clothesline ; the splintered hen coop stacked with empty jam jars . among the flowering weeds and crab grass runners : yellow gourds with dishcloth clothes and crayon faces . you wouldn ’ t see a weathered body freckled with birdshit , nor the punched-in shadow still aglint with thoughts . you ’ ve passed this place many times on your usual walk .
He didn ’ t have to say anything to wake me . I had already taken to not sleeping . He paced the length of the bed . He ’ d left twenty dollars for emergencies in his top dresser drawer . He had to go .
The postcards came creased , tobacco-stained , stamped Minsk , Irkutsk , and Krasnoyarsk . Ink bloomed in clouding steam as I stirred bubbling beets , hand on my belly , squinting at Yuri ’ s scrawl . He was studying , translating for the Ministry of Information . What , he wouldn ’ t say , or couldn ’ t . Outside , leaves shriveled , crunching .
Ella likes things tiny . Tiny toy dishes , tiny dolls . She even wants her dad to be tiny . Like the Incredible Shrinking Man she saw on the Telly . He could live in her Lincoln Log Cabin .
Pretty Asian girl asks if she can sit across from me . Yes . Her bangs almost cover her eyes . She steals glances . I ’ ve never stolen anything .
She loves the way January smells . A crease in clean linen , the metal cap from a flask of vanilla extract . The moon swells in the sky above her and her coat no longer buttons . Her sisters ask as if it were an act of vandalism , as if she wasn ’ t in the room . She doesn ’ t talk about it .
In the middle of the afternoon , old men lose their gravity , floating off sidewalks . Some bump their heads against tree trunks . Some collide with birds , who resent intruders in their air space . Some old men get their filaments of hair tangled in branches while others wisely latch onto clouds and kick their way through the atmosphere . Some old men turn over and over in space , their wallets and keys dropping from their pockets .
It is Halloween . I am a princess and my son Danny is a ghost . I carry his orange pumpkin bucket around and wear a tiara on my head . Danny isn ’ t saying anything but that ’ s because ghosts don ’ t talk . I collect pink Kit Kats from Mrs. Levinger and lollipops from Mr. Cruz .
She ’ s a nice woman with frail bones . She still cuts her own grass , and the other day I saw her trying to do a cartwheel on the freshly cut lawn . It didn ’ t quite work , but she tried a couple of times . Eventually she lay down and looked up at the sky . She lay there for quite a long time .
Night after night I scoop up fish in the shower . I carry them to safety and they swim out of my grown-up hands . In the morning it ’ s still 1967 with the wretched work of war ’ s dragons and my father ’ s black body bag , forsaken imprints of my mother ’ s red lipstick , a famine in her kitchen with a vinyl pocketbook of failure come down through the years . Night after night I want to show her the saved fish . Instead , I watch men on the sidelines count the fish , string them up , brag about the size and weight , then throw their bones away .
The clinking of glasses as she clears tables will be what she remembers most clearly . Bell-like , clear , almost happy . She will take home her dirty apron , shower the scent of service off of her skin , finish the crossword half-done on her morning commute , and pour a glass of port . Winter frost nearly thawed , she will hear crickets , smile , and quickly forget their chirping . She will sleep for three hours and twenty-seven minutes before the choking smoke wakens her and the firemen help her out .
Flattened by a car , its arms spread out , a little like Jesus . The sun had baked it as crisp as a potato chip . “ Poor toad , ” Maria said . “ Didn ’ t know how to cross the road. ” “ Maybe he thought the car was a new friend , ” I said . “ Rushing to greet him. ” “ Or he was puzzling how such a small thing in the distance could become so large. ” We spent hours in such conversations .
He sometimes buys flowers for his wife , the mixed batch at Safeway . He speaks mostly in declarative sentences . His car lacks navigation but has Bose . Every January he checks his Social Security payout for age 65 and then 72 . After dinner , if he hasn ’ t had too much to drink , he walks the dog , sniffing the evening , searching for the wind in the trees .
Tommy did the hair of all the wives . Bouffants , streaks , highlights , henna , they came back every week . For some it was the way he ’ d agitate their nape before the blade grazed their neck , blowing bits of gossip into one ear , hooking hair around the other . For others — how he understood the quasi-spiritual qualities of color , as if taping a manifesto over ONLY YOUR HAIRDRESSER KNOWS FOR SURE posters , turning his shop into a nineteenth century Salon des Refusés . The play of light and shadow meant everything .
Goldilocks hugs the wheel and we ’ re off . Speeding to church . I ’ m squeezed next to her in the front with Mama Bear . Goldilocks glows in a pink twinset and trademark pageboy . She ’ s wearing my wide pink paisley headband .
I read in a book that it is not just the earth that is dying , but the universe itself . Going back from whence it came : before it came . It seems so . The animals are dead ; Yosemite ; the sea ’ s big fish ; land itself . Last year , everyone-I-knew knew someone-our-age who ’ d died .
I am the cold shiver in the warm bath , the sour bite of the cherry , the wedge of food in your windpipe . I am half past home time for the kids you trusted to the swing park . I am the rise in your stomach as you take the blind bend on the brink of too late . I am the late night call that pierces your sleep . I am the counterfeit shadow lurking in the garden before your eyes take on its truthful shape .
Maria slouches near the reference desk squinting through porthole-thick lenses at The librarian special-ordered new large-print titles , and Maria prays they arrive before her eleventh birthday . Maria ’ s mother insists the e-reader ’ s zoom feature makes it the perfect gift . But what about the smells , the stacks , the Dewey Decimal System , the whispers ? There are better places for a girl on a Saturday , mother says . Gustavo , Maria ’ s defender , is gone .
We wanted to be the first children in space , but by the time we finished building our rocket , we were very old and our hearts weren ’ t in it anymore . We launched ourselves anyway , and our children ’ s children ’ s children were there to see us off . Our children ’ s children ’ s children wanted to come , but our children ’ s children thought it might not be safe , and anyway , we thought , why should they get to be the first children in space ? Build your own damned rocket . We listened while our children and our children ’ s children and our children ’ s children ’ s children counted backward in the yard .
My first real boyfriend , Alan , was a year older . We dated the summer after I graduated from high school . Off to college soon , leaving our small town and him , but he asked me to meet his family anyway . He picked me up in his ’ 79 silver Trans Am and we drove windows down , blasting Bad Company . An hour later , we arrived at a small blue trailer with a wooden porch .
Another new year , they tell me . Trees laden with drippings , Pollock oaks . I venture onto the carpeted lawn with only a number two pencil . My neighbor with great legs beckons from her porch—she has a place of heat but no light . She wants me to invest that place with significance .
When they were kids , this was all farmland . They married and bought a house early on , while the neighborhoods were still being built . Every morning , they walked their dog past the open doors of a coffee shop . The city offered each homeowner a free flowering pear tree . They planted theirs in the front yard .
Saturday at the roller rink , waiting for a chance to skate with the boy you want to hold your hand . A love song plays , there ’ s a disco ball . Thirteen , 1975 , you do what all the girls do : fake helplessness lest boys think you unladylike . Weekdays , alone after school , you fly down the steep concrete sidewalk , knees and hands scraped from falls , the metal skates so hard to adjust . When you see the boy skating toward you , hardly balanced himself , you hold up your hand—halt ! —and ask him if he has a key .
Seventeen women from ages twenty to fifty-seven wore the same red dress to the Westbury Country Club dance . Kelsey got fired by the boss who canned her sister Stacey , ten years and two states apart . Johnny ’ s pocket contained $ 1.50 , exactly the right amount to buy an orange popsicle from the Good Humor truck . All the miners in Bim , West Virginia , have the same last name . Professors Leonard and Daniels have been teaching identical courses since 2001 .
She said : We ’ re going to be late . He said : We ’ ve got plenty of time . She said : Do you even know what time it is ? He said : Soon enough . She said : You always do this .
Dad had his Post-it notes in the funeral home . He liked the rainbow colors . He refused to accept her death , this child of his . He stuck them on as though she were sleeping . No one stopped him .
I take a crow as a wife . She is faithful to the task . There are many words in her language for want . She has no tact but at least she ’ s truthful . Her eyes were blue when we met but they now match the black weave of night .
It was not my intention to purloin your glass eye : I saw it on the nightstand as you dozed , my little cyclops . Iris green as the North Atlantic , pupil black as cuttlefish ink . Something to remember you by , I think , pocketing it and scuttling home , where its potential for décor is assured . How it will gleam on the neon wicker buffet , next to the first-edition , a bust of Jackie Chan , an Ewok teapot , the jackalope I skinned myself . An eye for an I… Surely that macaroni necklace I presented you on our third date will prove a fair exchange ?
She is an old soul . We talk of Barbie dolls and school . Her hands weaving stories . Maybe a hesitant smile . Eyes soft , earth-brown pansies , sadly martyred .
I ordered this sandwich once with paper-thin carrots in it . I can ’ t remember what else . I tried to recreate it . I failed . There ’ s transcendence when flesh comes against blade .
Tomorrow is my wedding to a man who knows how to make me laugh . Although this groom-to-be texts from Houston— —no explanation , no remedy . No regrets . Within 20 seconds , Mother ’ s screaming in his ear . Uncle Kell threatens to fetch him in the Cessna , then break both legs after the reception .
I didn ’ t know her when she whispered in my ear , all persuasion and mesmeric . Dive into the bottle and win baby , win . In a few short hours we ’ ll be dancing through traffic . Soaking in a second skin of early morning rain . Pilled up and tranced out with our faces churning .
We endeavored to find the code , the holy handshake , the secret cursives of the air , that number God scrawled on the inside of our eyelids that we must close our eyes to see . But it ’ s dark in there . So what if you find the first initial of God ’ s middle name ? What if you plugged your amp into Satan ’ s right nipple ? That ’ s some good guitar work , but you ’ re still fucked .
I have a wing on one side only , she told me one time . Nakedness is not the same as clarity , she said . Here , I ’ ll show you . Now don ’ t be a lazy boy , she ’ d say . Her long smile .
I was a biologist at the national university , Farhan says , turn signal ticking as he merges onto the highway . A PhD researcher . He floors the accelerator . We had a nice apartment , good view of the city . Aminah was a nurse , he tells me , pointing to a Polaroid tucked into the rearview mirror .
She slid the iPad across the counter so fast he had to catch it . “ What ’ s the matter ? ” An all-too-familiar Facebook profile glowed up . “ Who is she ? ” Before he could speak , she repeated “ WHO IS SHE ? ” That manic edge that , he knew , no meds could dull . “ Honey , please . Please. ” Her eyes flared , teeth gnashed .
Forgetting the uses for things was , in a way , a relief . It was less painful , for instance , when her grandmother ’ s teacups shattered on the tile floor . They seemed to have fulfilled their purpose . She wiped up the mess , then tied the wet washrag in her hair . She was no longer afraid to drive backwards , or paint her clothes , or weed indiscriminately .
After you died I wandered the nearby field . Twilight . Your cat ran up to me with a bird ’ s heart in its mouth . I wanted to make something more out of that than what it was . You know what it was .
I wonder how Papa felt that first night in America , realizing he could never return to France . Leaving the hostel in Times Square to look up at the sky , comforted by constellations the same over Allençon or Paris , where that country boy caroused , seduced by revolutionary politics , prying up cobblestones , burning cars , and screwing dozens of girls , as he told my 12th grade government class later , fearing not “ ze AID ” but “ only ze crab ” , sharing his recipe for Molotov cocktails . “ Your dad is cool , ” the popular kids said . No wonder the only thing he taught me was how to flee . : Stuart Rankin
You promised to get me something if I beat you . Game after game , you rewarded yourself . Funnel cakes , spun sugar , ice cream slipping down paper cups . I saw the mirrored house . It was like the movie you shouldn ’ t have let me watch , when a girl ’ s breath clouded on one of the mirrors , and the man with the knife snapped out from inside of it in a burst of silver triangles .
The situation at the elementary school is dangerous . Childhood has taken Adolescence hostage , and they may not give in this time . The police have already recovered one body : a science teacher , his mouth stuffed with proven truths , duct taped shut . The hoodlums will give up their guns and cell phones for picture books and dress-up clothes . They want to talk to Santa and the Tooth Fairy .
Janelle still had her ex pimp ’ s name , over a smoking gun tattoo , peeking out of her blouse . Property of “ Stinger. ” She had been out of the life for years . Many states away . Living in her brother ’ s basement . Writing country songs she sang at the Bottom Rung .
Only the stickies speak louder than him . Fenêtre on the window . Lumiére on the lamp . Her room is a rolling patchwork farmland . A faraway world that ’ s not far enough .
He loved a girl named Claire , who was a three-dimensional shadow . He watched his shadow merging into her , her graceful slides , her stretches at sunset . Things were good . One night , he said , “ I kinda wish I could feel your heartbeat. ” She turned , said nothing . Things got worse .
To get out of a four year affair , which she started to get out of an eleven year marriage , Vera started seeing a woman . Next , she bought Braeburn apples at the suggestion from the produce clerk when the green apples she preferred were bruised . The following Sunday username veraboobookitty @ hotmail.com was already in use so she added the year she got her reckless driving ticket to the end and still had to throw on an exclamation point to secure the address . Three weeks into dating , Vera ’ s girlfriend asked her if she believed in true love . Not this month .
School let out , and we headed down for swimming at the spring . But my friends got held up dreading turtles . We arrived , and I tore yellowed leaves from a fallen limb . I stood with it raised above the waters and the swimmers . I ’ d only hit the surface once , when a loud voice called from rocks across the pond – “ Don ’ t you hurt those turtles ! ” – a dad voice , unyielding , but we couldn ’ t see the person who was calling .
It has always been inevitable that you would leave , tonight , for the grocery store , and never come back . There has never been any other choice but for you to go , and for me to let you . You have always thrown your jacket over your shoulders and run across the street in the rain . There is no alternate dimension where you said , or I said , we ’ ll get the eggs tomorrow , it can wait , only the sound of falling rain for me , the squealing of brakes on the street outside . And in the distance , the sound of sirens , coming near , coming near .
Nola sat ripening , Gulf waters spitting foam at her feet — sunglasses , lotion , rum and coke , and a circus tent towel — the whole bit . She just needed a god damned break from them . In San Francisco he saw the ripples in his coffee and heard the picture frames chatter nervously before the walls came down . He never heard a sound from either of them . They were pulled from the wreckage as silent as dolls while the red and orange lights danced through the trees .
A book of names , five months before the birth , and I suggested Abigail for the baby . A full name , three soft syllables ; a Hebrew word , meaning “ my father rejoices. ” But no , he told me — he slept with an Abby once . I ran my hands over my belly . I couldn ’ t think of anything smart to say . We tried out names all night .
We were born holding hands . The same amniotic sac held us , our shared world safeguarded . Our first trauma was not being born , but the cruelty of doctors who undid our clasp to bathe and weigh us before handing us to our crying mother . She understood without means that we were bound as close as Chang and Eng . We did not finish each other ’ s sentences nor feel each other ’ s pain , but even as we split our time during their eventual divorce—one at father ’ s , the other at mother ’ s—we would each sleep turned instinctively toward the other , hand outstretched in offering .
In the beginning the city stopped , now it moved too fast . He was taking that job in California . “ I love you this much , ” he said , holding his hands out like the length of a textbook . She was expecting more , maybe a baguette . The restaurant was empty and she didn ’ t understand why he picked this one .
Water might save you from drowning . Ceaseless , impassive , water echoes what you know : sister so sick , no cure ; brother drinks his own dead joy , niece takes it on the jaw . Dad just feeds his anger . You used to run until pain and wonder were the same . But running ran out and you took to the water with what you knew .
When your husband has Dementia , he dies twice . The first time he dies the most . His soul and brain go first . So what ’ s keeping him alive ? Oh yeah , his organs .
On the last day , we will open our door , step into the still air of uncreation , and watch the sky unfurl . We will walk down to Henrietta ’ s Diner like every day before , order the same bagels , the same coffee , open our laptops , and watch all our writings unwrite themselves . Our history spelled out in caramel steam , our destruction written in cinnamon swirls . Out the window , atop the hill we have made our home , our house will stand white , constant ; its backing sky will turn to first paper , then code , the universe retracting into the potential light that started it all . :
She was looking for a new age shop in Covent Garden . I told her to go to The Astrology Shop on Dean Street . It had a good reputation . She stopped in and then rejected it in favor of the psychic around the corner . She was dressed for London in January , hair piled high on her head to keep together in the drizzle .
The sign outside proclaimed : -CHURCH PARKING ONLY- Father Timothy would ’ ve smiled . He once warned that hell had a room with my name on it after I accidentally scratched his gold Cadillac while carrying the plastic baby Jesus statue to the nativity scene . I asked if my room would be close to his . He loathed me , and I avoided him like meat on Fridays . Poor Timothy .
Alberto has all but forgotten everything . “ Do you remember that time… ” he is asked , but the answer is invariably “ no. ” Occasionally , there are flashes : an amusement park whirring below him and the sound of wood against steel ; the breath of an older woman with hungry lips ; an angry morning in Pittsburgh . But , like all the rest , they are gone before long . One morning , a long woman with hair the color of butterscotch stands on his front porch , begging for forgiveness with dark , sad eyes . “ It was such a long time ago , ” she pleads .
Even in his sleep he talked , keeping her awake throughout the night . During all the dark hours during all his dreams , his face echoed the phrases he formed : mouth widening , lips moving , brows rising and falling , eyes squinting and opening . The hands held more : stretching , spinning , circling , waving , tracing arcs and swirls and angles above his supine body , a constant dance of words rising and falling with his long fingers on the air . Letters formed words formed sentences formed paragraphs formed stories . He rocked the bed with his talk .
Her knee slammed into the night table as she struggled to sit up . Outside , fog horns bellowed like beasts in search of their mates , while her bare foot brushed against the empty bottle of Jose Cuervo that had transported her from her own . Her gaze fell upon the discarded heap of white satin . A swell of panic encased her in its grip : The pounding of the church organ , the suffocating scent of a thousand gardenias , the eyes—so many eyes—bearing down upon her every step . From behind , she felt him stir , his arm slowly encircle her—like a noose .
It was a good divorce . They each took one of the cars and one of the labradoodles ; they divided the silver , antiques , and paintings , put the house up for sale , agreed to split the proceeds , and were shaking hands goodbye when they heard a musical tinkle from the garden . “ Oh-oh , ” she remembered , “ my wind chimes. ” “ My wind chimes , ” he corrected . They hurried across the lawn and reached for the chimes at the exact same moment ; when she tripped him , he slugged her , when he slugged her , she bit him . The realtor found their bodies later , chimes twined around their throats .
Kinky hair coiled into four silky dollops on her head , bantu knots recalling an African diaspora like upraised fists and military berets and black bodies channeling latent prophesies . Long arms bunched at the bicep—swift to uplift , to hold tight , to fight back . Brown eyes and heavy brows grounding her in the present . Her body a shapeshifter : first a whip , then a bomb , now a loving rage without skin . Hers a hungry stomach fond of protest .
The piano ’ s shawl hides me . Mom comes in and turns on the record player . Famous Opera Arias . Her favorite . The love seat ’ s plastic squishes when she sits down .
You could say we tried . Got sober together . He was younger . I let him love me despite better judgement . He moved to Syracuse for me .
She lives in a stark house on flat prairie . No furniture . Her biplane is parked nearby . I don ’ t think she has a self-preservation gene . I went up with her .
Should you die while stuck on Hold , your confused spirit can loop indefinitely within the phone tree . Hold music continues unabated ? You ’ re already in Hell . Breathe your last while waiting to speak to a supervisor ? Please press Three , because the angels of universal customer service sympathize with your sorrows .
When I walk into the office , an exotic bird ’ s at my desk , typing away . It lifts its talons off the keys , turns its green head . Coffee in the pot ! I pour myself some . That my report you ’ re working on ?
He made his move in the planetarium . She ’ d been gazing up at the outlines of Cassiopeia in the night sky , squinting to see a queen on a throne . She looked down and saw him on his knees , squeezed in front of the folding seat beside her . Did you lose something ? she said .
We rent locker space the way our parents rent houses . They are our sliver of space in this public world , a place to store , to fill , to hide . The others keep sports bags in theirs , heavy books , secret notes , but mine is always empty , a rectangle of suspended air that no one else can breathe . Today that changes . It ’ s only small but I can picture the day they find it—the look on the teacher ’ s face , my mother ’ s tears , the student testimonies .
After the bomb scare , the high school snapped transparent knapsacks to students ’ backs like inside-out turtle shells . Kids huddled in corridors , avoiding each other ’ s eyes , embarrassed by their zit creams , off-brand tampons , unopened packs of condoms , their Ritalin and inhalers , spare underpants and holey socks , satin scraps of security blankets , love letters from exes and lunch bag notes from moms , wadded Kleenex , laxatives , chocolate wrappers , unsigned permission slips , and essays shot through with red ink . Teachers paced like drill sergeants , monitoring the hallways tense as minefields . Students held their breath and waited . Somehow they all knew the explosion was coming .
They once drew from four strings Elgar ’ s Cello Concerto in E minor . Her arms danced about mahogany stained pine as partners , pulling to and fro . Haunting echoes of Jacqueline du Pre and her troubled brilliance . Now they search for the hint of a vein . Stretches of pale flesh once lined by purple blue channels , rivers and streams erased from a map .
In summertime we look for things buried in the clay . Our parents call us , but we lose their voices by digging deeper . We find arrowheads and campfire rings . Deeper , and we find Pleistocene glaciers , and past that , terrible feathered monsters . Deeper , and the town is an ocean floor .
Mary Ann had a thrilling day planned—wash basin full of dirty dishes , assorted soap-making and two dozen rabbit-sized waistcoats to iron out . The White Rabbit was vain and fastidious in his fidgety way . Some days she didn ’ t mind being an indentured servant to a time-obsessed member of the Leporidae . She liked the mundane nature of chores and how easily dirt and grime can be scrubbed away . With natural talent , she piled dishes higher than a house of cards .
A farmer in Iowa continued farming well into his 80s . He drove his air-conditioned tractor ten hours a day , even when there was nothing to till , nothing to plow , nothing to disc or harrow or plant . He drove until the sun went below the horizon and the sky was an indigo palette , shading to a strip of orange where it met the earth . He drove toward that strip , off the edge , and into the sky . His tractor caught the last ray of sun from below the horizon and winked its spark of light as it sailed into the deep blue .
It was her father ’ s favorite station : polished marble , vaulted ceiling , windows straight from a mansion house . Just like the best library he ever went to , but never had time for until the end . By then he was too ill to go out . He ’ d watched her figure skating , though ; drove her without complaint , 5 a.m. prompt every Saturday , and evenings besides . The marble in the station looks flowered underfoot like outdoor ice .
I tried to teach you how to shoot a spit wad . How to find the right shooter , just the right diameter . A pen will do in a pinch , and it ’ s easily concealed and disguised . I tried to show you the ropes of delinquency . Cheating gumball machines , firecrackers in the mailbox , where to hide and how to use the porno mag we stole from Dad .
Hannah ’ s motorcycle fishtails on wet pavement before she goes down . This is it . When she was a girl , Hannah loved the sensation of cheating the reaper . She climbed the skinny evergreen behind her house , high as she could go , until she could feel death waiting to catch her should she fall . She clung for dear life and kissed the tree , savoring the piney zing of sap .
A window opens on a forest : trees , moonlight , a path . You ’ ve been here before : the knot in a pine becomes a long-lost face , the veil of leaves a scarf of blue silk . You startle a flock of birds into flight and their cries echo a song playing in a tiny room wreathed in cigarette smoke . Through the window , the man at the piano sees a large house in a small town , his grandmother ’ s tulips , the fall of his sister ’ s hair . At the word song his eyes meet yours and his fingers pause on the keys : birds over a starlit canyon .
Back when I was young enough to invent and trust in my own Boy Scout knot , I tied a tape-recorder to a turtle ’ s shell and set it free . The first hard rain must ’ ve broken the flimsy thing , but I like to pretend it recorded the rain without breaking . This way , if the turtle ever returned , I could listen to the salient sounds teeter throughout the hum of low-fidelity . Maybe I ’ d hear my voice as a child telling him not to go too far . Or maybe I ’ d only hear him passing through the tall grass and , very slowly , going too far .
I started calling both my dog and husband Sweetie Pie the same year my husband found my lover ’ s cashmere sock . I ’ d stuffed it in my coat pocket after tugging at it nestled like a snake down my pants ’ leg . But it escaped flaccidly onto our stone entryway . After my dogwalk up and around the hill , the city nestled below us , its rivers aquiver , I unhooked the leash . I said , “ Oh , Sweetie Pie .
Lucy could bend even the smallest rays of light to her will . She created her own humidity , burrowed deep , and made dormant things grow . Her only enemies were tedium and despair . Lucy picked ruthless fights , played the princess , and slept like the dead . Sometimes we made love atop mounds of clean laundry .
Late August , a cat rolling in mown grass flips to its back again , then to its feet , half sun-drunk , half whiplash tail . I am loved . Not . Am . I ’ ve mastered these tricks : at parties after my husband ’ s “ break a leg , ” rolling an ice cube on my tongue , my eyes rolling over crowded rooms , my body buckled forward rolling over words .
Hi , Delta . You ’ re not taking my calls . Maybe you don ’ t have a signal . Either way . Just wanted to tell you keep clear of me .
Under northern skies in a hotel bed he is shifting in tidal sleep , from foyer bar oblivion . Blankly , perched at the bedside table , he has woken to January ’ s ashen afternoon . He scrawls then at fragments with a pen . The dream . A derelict warehouse , fingers phrasing over a hundred pianos .
I raced back from our house in Puerto Rico , going back to where my father slipped off the cliff . My brother , Miguel , was with me . Getting to the edge of the cliff , I cried out to my father that I was coming . Papi , I screamed , wanting to hear a response . There was none .
We liked to mash up the entire box of Junior Mints into one big ball . Make it into the Death Star and eat it like Jedi Knights . We tied Red Vines together till we could climb out of our lives and into the white light of heaven . Our shoes stuck to the floor like fly paper ; the buzz of people waiting for the lights to dim . Would hide in the bathroom so we could watch again .
She wore army men as earrings , stretched t-shirts into skirts , and blew through a can of Aqua Net every two weeks , maintaining a rooster comb hairdo of her own design . She hummed Blister in the Sun while unzipping my fly . God , I loved her , despite the braces on her teeth that delicately cut me no matter how gently she tried . She comes to mind after another fight with my wife crying upstairs about how I don ’ t look at her the same anymore . I stick a hand down my pants and turn up the volume .
I walked into the wrong apartment coming back from work , and someone else ’ s wife embraced me . Later , I sat in bed reading one of her husband ’ s books while she enjoyed a cigarette . A young girl knocked on our bedroom door . She needed a ride to her flute lesson . The woman who was not my wife leaned over and asked , “ Is she yours ? ” I answered .
I keep a photo of a stranger . I rescued him out of an estate sale cigar box . He looked the most like me . Yellowed , tattered , barebacked on the helm of the Claire de Lune . He ’ s always smiling at me , my dad .
All summer we stayed with Mazie ’ s mother , who smelled of lavender and gin . We strolled the boardwalk every day , pretend ladies in tattered lace , until Pierre bought us a sunflower , promised a three-course meal if we escorted him to a picture . That night the ocean thrashed and gulls swarmed the dunes . “ Does Mommy keep a liquor cabinet ? ” Pierre asked . Mazie ’ s laugh was gilded , gorgeous .
We watch each other in the blue glow of predawn , limbs entwined . We speak with our eyes : “ I grow hair on my back now , ” I say , “ white keratin horns that I pluck when you ’ re not around . A white picket fence is really a series of spears meant to impale the raised chins of children like ours . Please don ’ t make me become what I am. ” His eyes collect the shell of my body . My words fare the same .
We picnicked by the sullen river , its water brown , opaque and dense enough for starving frogs to flop across . I offered you a slice of Sunbeam bread , the last unsoiled food we had . You chewed it out of spite , my routine generosity taken as offense . Whenever one of us moved the weatherworn table creaked and shifted . What good is money to us now ?
My girlfriend wipes her makeup off . We just fought . She wipes her face off , skin flapping . We ’ re still fighting . She takes bones from her skull , arranges them on the dresser .
Out of habit , she liked to walk on the outside when the two of them were on sidewalks . He never said anything , but felt like she was protecting him , and was deeply moved by gratitude toward her , for this small gesture . For fifty years , they had always been like this . She was telling all of this to me . “ You know , sometimes I have this irresistible impulse now to just push him into the traffic , so I have to make myself walk on the outside , just to quell this urge. ” She said : In a way , I am still protecting him .
How beautiful it is by the sea , even though there is war in the air , even though there is always war in the air , which makes people live with a vengeance . Road fatalities exceed those lost in battle . Children run wild—soon enough they will sleep on stones in the desert . In the sky planes fly lower than you would think possible , low enough to wipe your plate clean . There ’ s an airport less than a mile from the promenade and the sea , the beautiful sea , duplicitous in nature , licking your lips , wrapping its salty arms around your throat .
Driving back from the beach , I talk to my dead father . Tell him what happened before doesn ’ t have to happen again . We reminisce over his schemes . As usual , I ’ m doing all the talking—that hotdog stand he built , the solar panels on the roof , his days with measuring tape in hand . The familiar silence merges between us same as always .
I called him Ant-nee . He wore a snake of plastic vein within his arm to save his kidney . He and I , we sculpted plants . He had a way with succulents ; did the driving to the homes needing beauty . On the way he ’ d stop for men along the medium , give them dollars , search their eyes .
Crammed in like batteries in a child ’ s toy , we board the bus , jockey for position , aisle seat or window , front or rear . We each have reasons for being where we are , jammed against each other , hip to hip . Only sometimes the reverie is interrupted by lunch line antics . A man at GPO has jumped the line and boarded first . A woman chastises him .
When I was an elementary-school kid , I favored combat boots in the winter and spring and sneakers in the summer and fall . Then when I was in junior high , it was necessary to wear black loafers with pointed toes . In high school , it was white bucks during the week and wing tips to church . In college , it was Bass Weejuns and Clarks desert boots . And now in my middle age , it ’ s New Balance running shoes at the gym and otherwise black comfort zone , genuine handsewn , contour cushioned , arch-supported Ecco loafers .
He mashes his potato with the side of his fork . I rearrange my lettuce and tomatoes , tell a story about the lonely pickle being frog with warts . My sister reaches across the table , knocking her milk into a river between us . Jesus Christ ! Dad ’ s voice rises , his face splotched like he ’ s caught poison oak .
As we came up over the hill , they started shooting at us from the woods . We hit the dirt and you could hear the bullets making a sound like buzzing insects as they whizzed by overhead . To my right , Henry made a moaning sound as if he ’ d been hit , but , no , he was just singing to himself . “ What ’ s that song ? ” I asked him . But he didn ’ t answer .
I took my entire net worth to the city park–one million dollars in unmarked bills , a miscellany of ones , fives , twenties , fifties , and hundreds . It filled three rather large suitcases , which made it very difficult to carry . The squirrels were impressed , so much so in fact that I also read them a sonnet and a prose poem that I had written . I attracted a very large audience . Chipmunks and birds gathered .
When Yiorgos was born he had already been staring at death for weeks . During Sofia ’ s final hard contractions a pink hand appeared and then withdrew , making way for a tiny skull and , to the horror of the women in the room , a shriveled blue face . A face that Yiorgos had explored during the final days inside the womb of his mother . And against this body that his arm and legs first tested themselves in the waters of his mother ’ s womb . Here that his identical twin brother took leave of this world and hung suspended there opposite Yiorgos like a bizarre talisman .
Since Agnes entered the arena of romance , every man she loved married the next girl he met . It was uncanny . All of them engaged within six months of encountering her . Understandably , this did nothing for her self-esteem . She changed her hair , started doing yoga , read countless magazines about what men want .
Hector Gonzalez , feared by the neighborhood youth , lived in his family ’ s garage and hung black lights on the big door , forcing us to sneak in from the back . We ’ d rifle through his records : Zappa , Santana , Clapton . I stole one I knew he wouldn ’ t miss . After he found out , my sister got in his face , defending me . Hector swung a roller skate , grazing her scalp .
We met in June . She ’ d busted me ogling high heels and cleavage at an after-hours party . “ Sometimes I go for the obvious types , ” I said . “ But then there ’ s this thing. ” I pointed first at her , then at myself . She blushed and I knew .
Sprawled on rumpled sheets in the semi-darkness , he gently placed my hand on the back of his calf . This is where it went in , he said , stroking my fingertips against the bumpy scar . He guided me around to another rough spot near his shin . And this is where it came out . Tattooed and cocky , he was fresh out of Pontiac , eighteen months for armed robbery .
My friend ’ s wife had a husky voice and a cute sideways look . She used to read literature out loud to convicts in the local jail . She was reading to her favorite prisoner when he whispered that he had cut the pockets out of his trousers . Reach in when you want , he said , just keep on pretending to read . When he got paroled he asked if he could park his trailer in their driveway until he got things straightened out .
My uncle Earl was a red-complected , hoarse-voiced , high-degree mason , a terror to my gentle Aunt Pauline in his wintertime alcoholic backslidings . He kept Doberman pinschers in the yard , and one would occasionally burst into the house , excited to the point of derangement , snarling and charging about the room with a pink and slippery-looking erected penis , ejaculating on the furniture and legs of guests . He never acknowledged my existence , considered me a contemptible pussy , but I knew him as a secret dreamer . There in the Illinois countryside , he pondered Country Gentleman magazine , and adorned his farm with hedgerows of multiflora rose . :
At the committee meeting , someone suggested sneaking a look at an internal candidate ’ s teaching evaluations . No way , I said . Why not , they asked . That , I said , would be like going through your sister ’ s underwear drawer while she ’ s at archery practice . My colleagues , sensing an element of unsavory confession , fell awkwardly silent , gave me looks of hooded surmise .
I can be funnier than you . Purists , nudists , gravel placates nerves . Pulchritude , a word scheming as buxom does for a sensible language . I take advantage in italics . There is beauty : black bough on snow ; a straight line ; shore line , life—hello ?
Tangled ringlets billowed behind her . “ Mommy , look ! ” She bounded towards me , pink pants glowing incandescently . My mouth felt dry . Sweat poured down my back . I stood there with arms extended , legs quivering .
Centuries The Stoli bottle ’ s frost melts to brilliance where I press my fingers . Evidence . Proof I ’ m here , drunk in your lamplit kitchen , breathing up your rented air , no intention of leaving . Our lust squats blunt as a brick on the table between us . We ’ re low on vocabulary .
